README.md, before:

frontsize
=========

It's a CSS front end framework written to make websites easy to read on every device and faster to be coded. It gives to the developer a solid base which can be used to build responsive layouts for websites or web apps.

Documentation is [in progress](https://github.com/ideatosrl/frontsize-less/wiki) and *far to be completed* but the best doc is the code itself, isn't it?

Next release
---

**Changes**
- **changed** lot of core file locations and names to split big less files into smaller ones
- **moved** theme `helpers` folder outside theme `components` folder which is removed
- **moved** theme `widgets` folder outside theme `components` folder which is removed
- **moved** `core/widgets` to `themes/default/widgets` folder, now the core don't own widgets anymore
- **changed** theme `base.less` file to a list of base elements sorted by type, this will make code more readable easy to be loaded or unloaded
- **changed** `addColumnsSet` mixin now can handle different grids per viewport set, for example now you can generate `hd-6-of-12` and `tablet-2-of-4` at once
- **changed** `first-letter` selector to `up-first-letter` and added `up-first-letter-only` selector which `uppercase` the first letter and `lowecase` others
- **splitted** `setFontScaling` mixin with `setLineHeightScaling`
- **changed** `backgroundRetina` mixin, now you must set the `background-size` property to avoid unwanted background size behaviors
- **splitted** all state selectors to be more easy to be loaded
- **changed** `padding` and `margin` state selector names with more intuitive ones

**Features**
- **added** fallback color support to background gradient helpers
- **added** `min-width` param to `addViewportsSteps` mixin to let disabled media queries works better
- **added** the possibility to set `font-family` on input placeholder attributes with `globalPlaceholder` and `input-placeholder` mixins
- **added** `UTF8` charset encoding declaration
- **added** `fit` and `fit-window` state selectors for popups and other stuff
- **added** `scaleBackgroundSize` mixin to scale *svg* sprites easily
- **added** `setSprite` mixin to make sprite names more readable
- **added** `addMarginOffset` mixin to enable columns left margin positioning
- **added** comment `/* private */` comment before every mixin recommended as private method
- **added** scale to `setSprite` mixin
- **added** `scaleSprite` mixin to scale svg sprites easily
- **added** `addPaddingSelector` and `addMarginSelector` mixins to make padding state rules dynamic and modular
- **added** `setLineHeightScaling` mixin
- **added** `comma-separated` selector to layout state selectors
- **added** `borderImage` helper mixin
- **added** `fillImage` mixin to set `fill` property to the background images for SVG generated HTML elements
- **added** `fillRetinaImage` mixin to set `fill` property to the background images for SVG generated HTML elements on standard and retina resolutions

**Optimization**
- **moved** out adjoining classes for `.fixed` and `.absolute` state selectors
- **semplified** `glossGradient` colors not properly applied
- **disabled** text selection to `.disabled` selector
- **added** `@forcePrefixes` to `font-smoothing` to prevent the property to be skipped from `autoprefixer`
- **added** `@forcePrefixes` to `appearance` to prevent the property to be skipped from `autoprefixer`
- **semplified** nav list state selectors
- **added** `border-box` to `.size` mixin ensure a more precise sizing
- **chaged** `useFrontsizeWidgets` mixin to `@use-core-widgets` as the other parts of the app configuration
- **added** `float:none` to `asTableRow` and `asTableCell` to prevent size problems in some case
- **disabled** default widgets by default, they need to be uncommented from theme imports to be enabled
- **disabled** some `@imports` not always important to a base template
- **split** print state selectors from media query print reset styles

**Fix**
- **added** `z-index` fix to `.fixed` and `.absolute` to ensure the element to be over it's siblings
- **renamed** an undefined var if `@root-path` is set to `true`
- **fixed** `spritePosition` helper with right number of values on `background-position` property
- **fixed** fallback colors for `verticalGradient`, `verticalGradientColors` and `glossGradient` mixins
- **added** missing `ieVerticalGradient` mixin inside `glossGradient` mixin
- **added** `relative` position to `body` to work better with children absolute positioning
- **added** missing `@important` to `.no-line-height`
- **fixed** selector `table-inline` to be more consistent
- **fixed** horizontal `margin` to `auto` to avoid `margin-top` and `margin-bottom` to be overridden
- **fixed** `ul` on core base now has it's default `display` property value
- **fixed** cursors to `pointer` to `a` element children
- **fixed** `moz-appearance` to default value to pass **csslint** test
- **fixed** `.unselectable` now sets text unselectable for it's children too
- **fixed** `.appearance` prefix which wasn't working properly in some cases

Version 1.3.3
---

**Features**
- **all** [CSSlint](https://github.com/stubbornella/csslint/) tests based on [.csslintrc](https://github.com/ideatosrl/frontsize-less/blob/master/.csslintrc) configuration successfully pass
- **added** `fallbackColor` mixin to help compatibility
- **added** app configuration var `@use-fallback-colors` to enable or disable mixin `fallbackColor`
- helpers are now **better organized** on core and themes like widgets

**Optimization**
- **enabled** `fallback-colors` test with [CSSlint](https://github.com/stubbornella/csslint/)
- **changed** all passed `rgba` colors to properties now using `fallbackColor` mixin to add compatibility to older browsers (ie)

**Bug fixes**
- **code indentation** on core prefixes
- **changed** `css` folder to `test` to avoid *css* usage misunderstanding
- **removed** `normalize.css` from tests
- **fixed** mixin `ieVerticalGradient` from a recursive variable definition

For developers
--------------
There's a lot of css selectors to let the developer work without loosing time on responsive development, with simple rules built to create smooth applications easy to be extended.

For designers
-------------
It's a useful tool for the designer who like to build a website reusing his design assets with the power of the customization on demand, directly through state selectors on templates.

Theme ready
-----------
Frontsize is designed to create modular and flexible themes easy to be changed, moved and updated with the latest core available.

Make love, not war
------------------
Frontsize supports both LESS and SASS, because they are nice, and you'll choose the best preprocessor.
Take a closer look to the repos on GitHub where you can report issues and pull requests.

Mobile first
------------
You'll find CSS selectors which can help you to build a perfectly reliable website from a smartphone to the big screen. There are media queries for every approach, two for mobile first, and one for traditional approach. You choose.

Configurable
------------
You can change your CSS app settings in every moment and have full control of your website padding, fonts styles, media query rules, grids configuration and behavior and see what CSS are included in your application. And much more.

Widgets + Helpers
-----------------
Widgets are CSS components, built to work alone and easy to be recycled arount your visual app, Helpers are mixins of CSS properties useful to let you write less code but more consistent. Frontsize will help you to be extended with your ones.

Community based
---------------
The project could be mantained by you too. You can create tons of useful widgets and helpers inside the community, then, everyone can choose to use them inside their Frontsize app with a click.


created by [Vittorio Vittori](https://twitter.com/vttrx) and [Alessandro Minoccheri](https://twitter.com/minompi), sponsored by [ideato](http://www.ideato.it)

Commit message:

Added Filters and Transforms helpers for CSS3 and .map files

README.md, after:

frontsize
=========

It's a CSS front end framework written to make websites easy to read on every device and faster to be coded. It gives to the developer a solid base which can be used to build responsive layouts for websites or web apps.

Documentation is [in progress](https://github.com/ideatosrl/frontsize-less/wiki) and *far to be completed* but the best doc is the code itself, isn't it?

Next release
---

**Changes**
- **changed** lot of core file locations and names to split big less files into smaller ones
- **moved** theme `helpers` folder outside theme `components` folder which is removed
- **moved** theme `widgets` folder outside theme `components` folder which is removed
- **moved** `core/widgets` to `themes/default/widgets` folder, now the core don't own widgets anymore
- **changed** theme `base.less` file to a list of base elements sorted by type, this will make code more readable easy to be loaded or unloaded
- **changed** `addColumnsSet` mixin now can handle different grids per viewport set, for example now you can generate `hd-6-of-12` and `tablet-2-of-4` at once
- **changed** `first-letter` selector to `up-first-letter` and added `up-first-letter-only` selector which `uppercase` the first letter and `lowecase` others
- **splitted** `setFontScaling` mixin with `setLineHeightScaling`
- **changed** `backgroundRetina` mixin, now you must set the `background-size` property to avoid unwanted background size behaviors
- **splitted** all state selectors to be more easy to be loaded
- **changed** `padding` and `margin` state selector names with more intuitive ones

**Features**
- **added** fallback color support to background gradient helpers
- **added** `min-width` param to `addViewportsSteps` mixin to let disabled media queries works better
- **added** the possibility to set `font-family` on input placeholder attributes with `globalPlaceholder` and `input-placeholder` mixins
- **added** `UTF8` charset encoding declaration
- **added** `fit` and `fit-window` state selectors for popups and other stuff
- **added** `scaleBackgroundSize` mixin to scale *svg* sprites easily
- **added** `setSprite` mixin to make sprite names more readable
- **added** `addMarginOffset` mixin to enable columns left margin positioning
- **added** comment `/* private */` comment before every mixin recommended as private method
- **added** scale to `setSprite` mixin
- **added** `scaleSprite` mixin to scale svg sprites easily
- **added** `addPaddingSelector` and `addMarginSelector` mixins to make padding state rules dynamic and modular
- **added** `setLineHeightScaling` mixin
- **added** `comma-separated` selector to layout state selectors
- **added** `borderImage` helper mixin
- **added** `fillImage` mixin to set `fill` property to the background images for SVG generated HTML elements
- **added** `fillRetinaImage` mixin to set `fill` property to the background images for SVG generated HTML elements on standard and retina resolutions
- **added** Filters and Transforms helpers for CSS3
- **added** `.map` files to grunt less exporter

**Optimization**
- **moved** out adjoining classes for `.fixed` and `.absolute` state selectors
- **semplified** `glossGradient` colors not properly applied
- **disabled** text selection to `.disabled` selector
- **added** `@forcePrefixes` to `font-smoothing` to prevent the property to be skipped from `autoprefixer`
- **added** `@forcePrefixes` to `appearance` to prevent the property to be skipped from `autoprefixer`
- **semplified** nav list state selectors
- **added** `border-box` to `.size` mixin ensure a more precise sizing
- **chaged** `useFrontsizeWidgets` mixin to `@use-core-widgets` as the other parts of the app configuration
- **added** `float:none` to `asTableRow` and `asTableCell` to prevent size problems in some case
- **disabled** default widgets by default, they need to be uncommented from theme imports to be enabled
- **disabled** some `@imports` not always important to a base template
- **split** print state selectors from media query print reset styles

**Fix**
- **added** `z-index` fix to `.fixed` and `.absolute` to ensure the element to be over it's siblings
- **renamed** an undefined var if `@root-path` is set to `true`
- **fixed** `spritePosition` helper with right number of values on `background-position` property
- **fixed** fallback colors for `verticalGradient`, `verticalGradientColors` and `glossGradient` mixins
- **added** missing `ieVerticalGradient` mixin inside `glossGradient` mixin
- **added** `relative` position to `body` to work better with children absolute positioning
- **added** missing `@important` to `.no-line-height`
- **fixed** selector `table-inline` to be more consistent
- **fixed** horizontal `margin` to `auto` to avoid `margin-top` and `margin-bottom` to be overridden
- **fixed** `ul` on core base now has it's default `display` property value
- **fixed** cursors to `pointer` to `a` element children
- **fixed** `moz-appearance` to default value to pass **csslint** test
- **fixed** `.unselectable` now sets text unselectable for it's children too
- **fixed** `.appearance` prefix which wasn't working properly in some cases

Version 1.3.3
---

**Features**
- **all** [CSSlint](https://github.com/stubbornella/csslint/) tests based on [.csslintrc](https://github.com/ideatosrl/frontsize-less/blob/master/.csslintrc) configuration successfully pass
- **added** `fallbackColor` mixin to help compatibility
- **added** app configuration var `@use-fallback-colors` to enable or disable mixin `fallbackColor`
- helpers are now **better organized** on core and themes like widgets

**Optimization**
- **enabled** `fallback-colors` test with [CSSlint](https://github.com/stubbornella/csslint/)
- **changed** all passed `rgba` colors to properties now using `fallbackColor` mixin to add compatibility to older browsers (ie)

**Bug fixes**
- **code indentation** on core prefixes
- **changed** `css` folder to `test` to avoid *css* usage misunderstanding
- **removed** `normalize.css` from tests
- **fixed** mixin `ieVerticalGradient` from a recursive variable definition

For developers
--------------
There's a lot of css selectors to let the developer work without loosing time on responsive development, with simple rules built to create smooth applications easy to be extended.

For designers
-------------
It's a useful tool for the designer who like to build a website reusing his design assets with the power of the customization on demand, directly through state selectors on templates.

Theme ready
-----------
Frontsize is designed to create modular and flexible themes easy to be changed, moved and updated with the latest core available.

Make love, not war
------------------
Frontsize supports both LESS and SASS, because they are nice, and you'll choose the best preprocessor.
Take a closer look to the repos on GitHub where you can report issues and pull requests.

Mobile first
------------
You'll find CSS selectors which can help you to build a perfectly reliable website from a smartphone to the big screen. There are media queries for every approach, two for mobile first, and one for traditional approach. You choose.

Configurable
------------
You can change your CSS app settings in every moment and have full control of your website padding, fonts styles, media query rules, grids configuration and behavior and see what CSS are included in your application. And much more.

Widgets + Helpers
-----------------
Widgets are CSS components, built to work alone and easy to be recycled arount your visual app, Helpers are mixins of CSS properties useful to let you write less code but more consistent. Frontsize will help you to be extended with your ones.

Community based
---------------
The project could be mantained by you too. You can create tons of useful widgets and helpers inside the community, then, everyone can choose to use them inside their Frontsize app with a click.


created by [Vittorio Vittori](https://twitter.com/vttrx) and [Alessandro Minoccheri](https://twitter.com/minompi), sponsored by [ideato](http://www.ideato.it)
